We offer this course through UC Merced's CalTeach program, which offers weeklong summer seminars for K-12 students.  This class is intended for grades 9-12, and we usually get a mix of grade levels.  As long as the students have taken algebra they should be able to follow the class.  If possible, mixing younger and older students can help with this.  Younger students may struggle with the unit conversion or scientific notation, but as long as one member of the group is comfortable with the math they should be able to do the experiments.

Our courses have a maximum enrollment of 24 students, but we typically get around 10 for this class.  We split them into groups of 2-6 students for the activities.  If you have enough materials we find that 2 or 3 is usually best because they got more hands on experience.  The course is taught with one professor and 2 student assistants to help them work through the worksheets and labs.

> **Note:** At UC Merced our course has a $100 registration fee; this is primarily because the CalTeach program has found that if the course is offered for free you get lets of student that register but never show up!  

The list of required materials is in a separate spreadsheet.  Quite a bit of the material is likely already available in a standard college level physics lab.  In particular this includes the most expensive bits: the function generator and oscilloscope, and possibly mirror mounts and optics.  The rest of the components required to build the experiments are designed to be relatively cheap, ~$300/group.  With some creativity this cost could likely be further reduced, but we think this is a good compromise.  For example, we have used shorter (2 foot) T-slot rails in the past since these can be cheaply purchased on Amazon.  However, this prevents you from doing the speed and wavelength of light on a single railing, making alignment much harder.  (This is particularly an issue with the wavelength of light; the first year we taught this with shorter rails the groups were unable to get decent measurements.  With the full 6' rail it is much easier and more accurate.) 

Some items will also need to be built using a 3D printer and/or laser cutter, documened on the [construction page](construction.md).  We use a resin 3D printer ($500 as of 2023), but other options should work fine.  We also laser cut some of the simpler items, but they could be 3D printed or assembled using other methods.  if you bulid these experiments using alternative methods please let us know!  


